fpga_compile code sample (#1)
KevinUTAT/oneAPI-samples: DirectProgramming/DPC++FPGA/Tutorials/GettingStarted/fpga_compile/README.md

| OS                                | Linux* Ubuntu* 18.04/20.04 <br> RHEL*/CentOS* 8 <br> SUSE* 15 <br> Windows* 10
| Hardware                          | Intel® Programmable Acceleration Card (PAC) with Intel Arria® 10 GX FPGA <br> Intel® FPGA Programmable Acceleration Card (PAC) D5005 (with Intel Stratix® 10 SX) <br> Intel® FPGA 3rd party / custom platforms with oneAPI support <br> *__Note__: Intel® FPGA PAC hardware is compatible only with Ubuntu 18.04*
| Software                          | Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler
| What you will learn               | How and why compiling SYCL* code for FPGA differs from CPU or GPU <br> The compile options used to target FPGA devices
| Time to complete                  | 30 minutes

> **Note**: Even though the Intel DPC++/C++ OneAPI compiler is enough to compile for emulation, generating reports and generating RTL, there are extra software requirements for the simulation flow and FPGA compiles.
>
> For the simulation flow, one of the following simulators must be installed and accessible through your PATH environment variable:
> - Questa*-Intel® FPGA Edition
> - Questa*-Intel® FPGA Starter Edition

> > - ModelSim® SE

Reviewer: ModelSim SE isn't listed as a supported simulation tool for Quartus any more.

Change this to "Siemens EDA Questa Advanced Simulator" for the first use. If you need to mention it later, you can just say "Questa Advanced Simulator", but typically you can avoid that and address all 3 supported simulators by say "...a Questa simulator..." or "...Questa simulation software..."

Reviewer 2: Interesting, I've asked around but no one really complained about ModelSim SE.
I'll make a note about it and update all the other code samples, thanks Eric!

Reviewer: It's nothing urgent to update, but we should move towards the new name as we make updates.

There are two important caveats to remember when using the FPGA emulator.
* **Performance is not representative.** _Never_ draw inferences about FPGA performance from the FPGA emulator. The FPGA emulator's timing behavior is uncorrelated to that of the physical FPGA hardware. For example, an optimization that yields a 100x performance improvement on the FPGA may show no impact on the emulator performance. It may show an unrelated increase or even a decrease.
* **Undefined behavior may differ.** If your code produces different results when compiled for the FPGA emulator versus FPGA hardware, your code most likely exercises undefined behavior. By definition, undefined behavior is not specified by the language specification and may manifest differently on different targets.

#### Optimization Report (Early Image)

For this compilation type, your SYCL device code is optimized and converted into an FPGA design specified in Verilog RTL (a low-level, native entry language for FPGAs). This intermediate compilation result is also called the *FPGA early device image*, which is **not** executable. 

> The optimization report, sometimes called the "static report," contains significant information about how the compiler has transformed your device code into an FPGA design. The report includes visualizations of structures generated on the FPGA, performance and expected performance bottleneck information, and estimated resource utilization. Optimization reports are generated for the 'optimization report', 'simulator' and 'hardware' compilation types. 

Reviewer: Use double-quotes instead of single-quotes here.

This FPGA tutorial introduces how to compile SYCL*-compliant code for FPGA through a simple vector addition example. If you are new to SYCL* for FPGA, start with this sample.

| Optimized for                     | Description
|:---                               |:---
| OS                                | Linux* Ubuntu* 18.04/20.04 <br> RHEL*/CentOS* 8 <br> SUSE* 15 <br> Windows* 10
| Hardware                          | Intel® Programmable Acceleration Card (PAC) with Intel Arria® 10 GX FPGA <br> Intel® FPGA Programmable Acceleration Card (PAC) D5005 (with Intel Stratix® 10 SX) <br> Intel® FPGA 3rd party / custom platforms with oneAPI support <br> *__Note__: Intel® FPGA PAC hardware is only compatible with Ubuntu 18.04*

> | Software                          | Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler <br> Intel® Quartus® Prime Pro Edition <br> Intel® Platform Designer Prime Pro Edition <br> Siemens*  Questa*-Intel® FPGA Starter Edition (or Siemens* Questa*-Intel® FPGA Edition)

Author: I will note down to update this before the public PR

Long compile times are detrimental to developer productivity. The Intel® oneAPI DPC++ Compiler provides several mechanisms that enable developers targeting FPGA to iterate quickly on their designs. By circumventing the time-consuming process of full FPGA compilation wherever possible, SYCL for FPGA developers can enjoy the fast compile times familiar to CPU and GPU developers.

### Four types of SYCL for FPGA compilation
The four types of FPGA compilation are summarized in the table below.

| Compilation Type     | Time to Compile | Description
|:---                  |:---             |:---
| FPGA Emulator        | seconds         | The FPGA device code is compiled to the CPU. <br> This is used to verify the code's functional correctness.
| Optimization Report  | minutes         | The FPGA device code is partially compiled for hardware. <br> The compiler generates an optimization report that describes the structures generated on the FPGA, identifies performance bottlenecks, and estimates resource utilization.

> | FPGA Simulator       | 10-15 minutes   | Compiles the FPGA device code to RTL and generates a simulation testbench. Use Siemens* Questa*-Intel® FPGA Starter Edition (or Siemens* Questa*-Intel® FPGA Edition) to verify your design.

Reviewer 2: At this moment "RTL" has not been defined. 
Also the same remarks as in the requirements applies, we don't know yet exactly what should be put there for the simulator.

> | FPGA Hardware        | hours           | Generates an FPGA bitstream in full-system acceleration kernel. Generates accurate resource/performance estimates for reusable IP component.

Reviewer 2: Are these really estimates for reusable IPs? These will be actual quartus numbers right?

Author: The reference I can find is in _Synthesizing Your Component IP with Intel Quartus Prime Software_ where it states: "Typically, Intel Quartus Prime compilation times can take minutes to hours, depending on the size and complexity of your IP components."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| FPGA Hardware        | hours           | Generates an FPGA bitstream in full-system acceleration kernel. Generates accurate resource usage and performance estimates for reusable IP component.
```

#### Optimization Report (Early Image)

For this compiliation type, your SYCL device code is optimized and converted into an FPGA design specified in Verilog RTL (a low-level, native entry language for FPGAs). This intermediate compilation result is also called the *FPGA early device image*, which is **not** executable. 

The optimization report, sometimes called the "static report," contains significant information about how the compiler has transformed your device code into an FPGA design. The report includes visualizations of structures generated on the FPGA, performance and expected performance bottleneck information, and estimated resource utilization. Optimization reports are generated for the 'optimization report', 'simulator' and 'hardware' compilation types. 

The [FPGA Optimization Guide for Intel® oneAPI Toolkits Developer Guide](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-fpga-optimization-guide/top/analyze-your-design.html) contains a chapter on how to analyze the reports generated after the FPGA early image and FPGA image.

#### FPGA Simulator

> 

Reviewer 2: I think it would be beneficial to explain that the simulation is completely transparent to the user, that they do not have to open modelsim and create a testbench and so on.
They'll run their executable as usual, it's just that the FPGA part will run in a simulator under the hood.
However, they can open modelsim to debug an issue, etc.

I realize it's hard to motivate opening modelsim as it would be telling them to debug an issue with our compiler...

Reviewer 2: I don't think that you addressed this comment

Author: Re-write this section to be aligned with to the programing guide

This compilation type generates co-simulation support in addition to the RTL and optimization report in the optimization report compilation type. This compilation result **is** executable, and can validate the generated Verilog RTL without requiring any physical FPGA hardware. The FPGA simulator compilation type takes longer than the emulator and optimization report.

Running the simulation executable can take a long time if your device code is complex. To save simulation time, use the smallest possible input.

#### FPGA Hardware (Hardware Image)

> The generated Verilog RTL is mapped onto the FPGA's sea of primitive hardware resources by the Intel® Quartus® Prime software. The estimated performance and resource utilization is therefore much more accurate than the estimates obtained in the optimization report compilation type. The result is an FPGA hardware binary (also referred to as a bitstream) that is executable if you target a supported FPGA board. The compilation result is **not** executable if you generate a re-usable IP component. This compilation process takes hours, although it may be faster if you generate a re-usable IP component.

Reviewer 2: Please tell that the reusable IP is not an executable in another paragraph to really separate the two.
Or make a bullet list with the two options

> While SYCL* code can be compiled for CPU, GPU, or FPGA, compiling to FPGA is somewhat different. This tutorial explains these differences and shows how to compile a "Hello World" style vector addition kernel for FPGA, following the recommended workflow.

Reviewer 3: I can't comment on line 8, but please change it to this:

```
| Software                          | Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler <br> Intel® Quartus® Prime Pro Edition <br> Intel® Platform Designer Prime Pro Edition <br> Siemens*  Questa*-Intel® FPGA Starter Edition (or Siemens* Questa*-Intel® FPGA Edition)
```

Long compile times are detrimental to developer productivity. The Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler provides several mechanisms that enable developers targeting FPGAs to iterate quickly on their designs. By circumventing the time-consuming process of full FPGA compilation wherever possible, developers can enjoy the fast compile times familiar to CPU and GPU developers.

### Full-system Acceleration vs Kernels Reusable IP Component

In the FPGA full-system acceleration flow, you can generate an executable host application and acceleration kernel for a PCIe FPGA board if you have a compatible board support package (BSP). Intel provides BSPs for the Intel® PAC with Intel Arria® 10 GX FPGA, and the Intel® FPGA PAC D5005 (with Intel Stratix® 10 SX). If you have a different board, check with your vendor to see if they supply a BSP.

In the FPGA IP component authoring flow, you can generate a reusable IP component that can import into an Intel® Quartus® Prime project. You can generate an IP by targeting your compilation to a supported Intel® FPGA device family or part number (e.g. `Agilex` or `AGFB014R24A3EV`) instead of a named board (e.g. `intel_a10gx_pac:pac_a10`). 

> The FPGA IP component authoring flow will not generate any FPGA accelerated executable, only RTL (Register Transfer Level) IP component files. The host application will only be treated as a 'testbench' that exercises and validates your IP component in emulation and simulation.

Reviewer 2: Can you add something along the lines of:
When compiling for FPGA using the full board design, the compiler will interface your design with the BSP and quartus will compile the entire design. Your host application will then seamlessly make the system calls to launch the kernels on the FPGA. 
When compiling for FPGA using the IP flow, Quartus will only compile for the IP is isolation, not connected to anything else on the FPGA, making the generated bitstream unusable. This flow will only be used to get accurate resource usage data of the generated IP that will need to be integrated into a larger RTL project.

Author: I think this is a better fit to the `#### FPGA hardware` section on line 71

Long compile times are detrimental to developer productivity. The Intel® oneAPI DPC++ Compiler provides several mechanisms that enable developers targeting FPGA to iterate quickly on their designs. By circumventing the time-consuming process of full FPGA compilation wherever possible, SYCL for FPGA developers can enjoy the fast compile times familiar to CPU and GPU developers.

### Four types of SYCL for FPGA compilation
The four types of FPGA compilation are summarized in the table below.

| Device Image Type    | Time to Compile | Description
---                    |---              |---
| FPGA Emulator        | seconds         | The FPGA device code is compiled to the CPU. <br> This is used to verify the code's functional correctness.
| Optimization Report  | minutes         | The FPGA device code is partially compiled for hardware. <br> The compiler generates an optimization report that describes the structures generated on the FPGA, identifies performance bottlenecks, and estimates resource utilization.

> | FPGA Simulator  | minutes         | Compiles the FPGA device code to RTL and generates a simulation testbench. Use the Questa*-Intel® FPGA Edition simulator to verify your design.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| FPGA Simulator       | minutes         | Compiles the FPGA device code to RTL and generates a simulation testbench. Use Siemens* Questa*-Intel® FPGA Starter Edition (or Siemens* Questa*-Intel® FPGA Edition) to verify your design.
```
Add spaces to align the table properly

#### FPGA Hardware

> This is a full compile through to the FPGA hardware image. You can target the Intel® PAC with Intel Arria® 10 GX FPGA, the Intel® FPGA PAC D5005 (with Intel Stratix® 10 SX), or a custom device.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is a full compile through to the FPGA hardware image. You can target the Intel® PAC with Intel Arria® 10 GX FPGA, the Intel® FPGA PAC D5005 (with Intel Stratix® 10 SX), or a custom device with a compatible Board Support Package (BSP).
```

> ### Compile for IP Components

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Reusable IP Component
```

> In the FPGA IP Authoring flow, you target your SYCL* code to generate IP components that you can integrate into custom system. You target your compilation to a supported Intel® FPGA device family or part number.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the FPGA IP Authoring flow, you generate a reusable IP component from your SYCL* code instead of a full FPGA image. You can import this IP into an Intel® Quartus® Prime project. You can generate a standalone IP by target your compilation to a supported Intel® FPGA device family or part number instead of an Intel® PAC or other custom device.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Line 71-78 is redundant. to line 49-55

No additional software is required to emulate your IP component, and no modifications to your host code are required.

### Device Selectors
The following code snippet demonstrates how you can specify the target device using `simulator_selector.hpp`. The selector is used to specify the target device at runtime.

```c++
// Handles selecting device selector
#include "simulator_selector.hpp"

int main() {
  // chooseSelector() select either:
  //  - the FPGA emulator device (CPU emulation of the FPGA)
  //  - the FPGA device (a real FPGA)
  //  - the FPGA simulator (Questa*-Intel® FPGA Edition simulator)

  queue q(chooseSelector());
  ...
}
```

### Compiler Options
This section includes a helpful list of commands and options to compile this design for the FPGA emulator, generate the FPGA early image optimization reports, and compile for FPGA hardware.

```bash
# FPGA emulator image
icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga -DFPGA_EMULATOR fpga_compile.cpp -o fpga_compile.fpga_emu

# FPGA simulator image: FPGA device family

> icpx -fxycl -fintelfpga fpga_design.cpp -Xssimulation -Xstarget=Agilex -Xsghdl -DFPGA_SIMULATOR

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga fpga_design.cpp -Xssimulation -Xstarget=Agilex -DFPGA_SIMULATOR
```
i notice lots of these typos later on too.

`-Xsghdl` does nothing.

icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga -Xshardware -Xstarget=10AX115S2F45I1SG fpga_design.cpp -o fpga_design.fpga -DFPGA_HARDWARE

# FPGA hardware image: default board
icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga -Xshardware fpga_compile.cpp -o fpga_compile.fpga -DFPGA_HARDWARE

# FPGA hardware image: explicit board
icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga -Xshardware -Xstarget=intel_s10sx_pac:pac_s10 fpga_compile.cpp -o fpga_compile.fpga -DFPGA_HARDWARE
```

The compiler options used are explained in the table.
| Flag               | Explanation
|:---                  |:---
| `-fintelfpga`      | Perform ahead-of-time compilation for FPGA.
| `-DFPGA_EMULATOR`  | Adds a preprocessor define that invokes the emulator device selector in this sample (see code snippet above).
| `-DFPGA_SIMULATOR` | Adds a preprocessor define that invokes the simulator device selector in this sample (see code snippet above).
| `-DFPGA_HARDWARE`  | Adds a preprocessor define that invokes the FPGA device selector in this sample (see code snippet above).
| `-Xshardware`      | `-Xs` is used to pass arguments to the FPGA backend. <br> Since the emulator is the default FPGA target, you must pass `Xshardware` to instruct the compiler to target FPGA hardware.

> | `-Xstarget=<FPGA device family>`<br>`-Xstarget=<FPGA part number>`<br>`-Xstarget=<bsp:variant>` | [Optional] Instructs the compiler to target an part number, or an FPGA board as follows:<br> `-Xstarget=<FPGA device family>` specifies the target FPGA device family. Valid values are `CycloneV`, `Agilex`, `Arria10`, and `Stratix10`.<br> `-Xstarget=<FPGA part number>` specifies the target FPGA part number (sometimes called an OPN). You can specify any valid Cyclone® V, Intel® Agilex™, Intel® Arria® 10, or Intel® Stratix® 10 part number.<br> `-Xstarget=<bsp:variant>` specifies the FPGA board variant and BSP.<br> If you omit the `-Xstarget` flag, the compiler chooses the default FPGA board variant `pac_a10 from the intel_a10gx_pac` BSP (equivalent to `-Xstarget=intel_a10gx_pac:pac_a10`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `-Xstarget=<FPGA device family>`<br>`-Xstarget=<FPGA part number>`<br>`-Xstarget=<bsp:variant>` | [Optional] Instructs the compiler to target a part number, or an FPGA board as follows:<br> `-Xstarget=<FPGA device family>` specifies the target FPGA device family. Valid values are `CycloneV`, `Agilex`, `Arria10`, and `Stratix10`.<br> `-Xstarget=<FPGA part number>` specifies the target FPGA part number (sometimes called an OPN). You can specify any valid Cyclone® V, Intel® Agilex™, Intel® Arria® 10, or Intel® Stratix® 10 part number.<br> `-Xstarget=<bsp:variant>` specifies the FPGA board variant and BSP.<br> If you omit the `-Xstarget` flag, the compiler chooses the default FPGA board variant `pac_a10 from the intel_a10gx_pac` BSP (equivalent to `-Xstarget=intel_a10gx_pac:pac_a10`).
```
This table entry is very difficult to read; does this look better broken out into separate rows?

| `-fsycl-link=early`| Instructs the compiler to stop after creating the FPGA early image (and associated optimization report).

> Notice that whether you target the FPGA emulator or FPGA hardware must be specified twice: through compiler options for the ahead-of-time compilation and through the runtime device selector.

Reviewer 3: This sentence is so hard to read; i do not understand it.

#include <sycl/ext/intel/fpga_extensions.hpp>

int main() {

// choose a selector based on compiler flags.
#if FPGA_SIMULATOR
    std::cout << "using FPGA Simulator." << std::endl;
    sycl::queue q(sycl::ext::intel::fpga_simulator_selector{});

> #elif FPGA_HARDWARE

Reviewer 2: This is a change compared to all the other samples.
Do we want to make it different only for this sample?
Usually the EMULATOR is the one defined, and FPGA_HARDWARE is not defined

Author: Changed to the same as other samples

  ext::intel::fpga_selector device_selector;

// choose a selector based on compiler flags.
#if FPGA_SIMULATOR
    std::cout << "using FPGA Simulator." << std::endl;
    sycl::queue q(sycl::ext::intel::fpga_simulator_selector{});
#elif FPGA_HARDWARE
    std::cout << "using FPGA Hardware." << std::endl;
    sycl::queue q(sycl::ext::intel::fpga_selector{});
#else  // #if FPGA_EMULATOR
    std::cout << "using FPGA Emulator." << std::endl;
    sycl::queue q(sycl::ext::intel::fpga_emulator_selector{});
#endif

  queue q(device_selector);
  ...
    ...
}
```

> Notice that the FPGA emulator and the FPGA are different target devices. It is recommended to use a preprocessor define to choose between the emulator and FPGA selectors. This makes it easy to switch between targets using only command-line options. Since the FPGA only supports ahead-of-time compilation, dynamic selectors (such as the default_selector) are less useful than explicit selectors when targeting FPGA.

Reviewer 2: Why removing this paragraph?

Author: Added back

Optimization Report

```bash

> # FPGA early image (with optimization report): FPGA device family

Reviewer 2: Maybe show one command and have a note showing the different options for --Xstarget?

icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga -DFPGA_HARDWARE fpga_design.cpp -Xshardware -fsycl-link=early -Xstarget=Stratix10 -o fpga_design_report.a

# FPGA early image (with optimization report): FPGA part number
icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga -DFPGA_HARDWARE fpga_design.cpp -Xshardware -fsycl-link=early -Xstarget=1SG280LU3FS0E3VG -o fpga_design_report.a

# FPGA early image (with optimization report): explicit board
icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga -DFPGA_HARDWARE fpga_design.cpp -Xshardware -fsycl-link=early -Xstarget=intel_s10sx_pac:pac_s10 -o fpga_design_report.a
```

Simulator

```bash
# FPGA simulator image: FPGA device family

> icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga -DFPGA_SIMULATOR fpga_design.cpp -Xssimulation -Xstarget=Agilex -o fpga_design_sim.a

Reviewer 2: Some need -ghdl but I'm not sure which please check

Author: right, add -Xsghdl

# FPGA simulator image: FPGA part number
icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga -DFPGA_SIMULATOR fpga_design.cpp -Xssimulation -Xstarget=AGFB014R24A3EV -o fpga_design_sim.a 

# FPGA simulator image: explicit board
icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga -DFPGA_SIMULATOR fpga_design.cpp -Xssimulation -Xstarget=intel_s10sx_pac:pac_s10 -o fpga_design_sim.a
```

Hardware

```bash
# FPGA hardware image: FPGA device family
icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga -DFPGA_HARDWARE fpga_design.cpp -Xshardware -Xstarget=Arria10 -o fpga_design.fpga

# FPGA hardware image: FPGA part number
icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga -DFPGA_HARDWARE fpga_design.cpp -Xshardware -Xstarget=10AX115S2F45I1SG fpga_design.cpp -o fpga_design.fpga

# FPGA hardware image: explicit board
icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga -DFPGA_HARDWARE fpga_design.cpp -Xshardware -Xstarget=intel_s10sx_pac:pac_s10 -o fpga_design.fpga
```

The compiler options used are explained in the table.
| Flag                             | Explanation
|:---                              |:---

> | `-fintelfpga`                    | Perform ahead-of-time compilation for FPGA.

Reviewer 2: This is not really accurate, as we use this as well for emulation
It is used for having our FPGA hooks

| `-DFPGA_EMULATOR`                | Adds a preprocessor define that invokes the emulator device selector in this sample (see code snippet above).
| `-DFPGA_SIMULATOR`               | Adds a preprocessor define that invokes the simulator device selector in this sample (see code snippet above).
| `-DFPGA_HARDWARE`                | Adds a preprocessor define that invokes the FPGA device selector in this sample (see code snippet above).
| `-Xshardware`                    | Instructs the compiler to target FPGA hardware and generate an FPGA bitstream. Cannot be used along with `-Xssimulator`.
| `-Xssimulator`                   | Instructs the compiler to generate a co-simulation executable instead of an FPGA bitstream. Cannot be used along with `-Xshardware`.

> | `-fsycl-link=early`              | Instructs the compiler to stop after creating the FPGA early image (and associated optimization report). No executable (co-simulation or FPGA bitstream) is created.

Reviewer 2: Please explain that this needs to be used alongside the -Xshardware flag

| `-Xstarget=<FPGA device family>` | Instructs the compiler to target FPGA device family. Valid values are `CycloneV`, `Agilex`, `Arria10`, and `Stratix10`.<br> If you omit the `-Xstarget` flag, the compiler chooses the default FPGA board variant `pac_a10 from the intel_a10gx_pac` BSP (equivalent to `-Xstarget=intel_a10gx_pac:pac_a10`).
| `-Xstarget=<FPGA part number>`   | Instructs the compiler to target FPGA part number (sometimes called an OPN). You can specify any valid Cyclone® V, Intel® Agilex™, Intel® Arria® 10, or Intel® Stratix® 10 part number.
| `-Xstarget=<bsp:variant>`        | Instructs the compiler to target FPGA board variant and BSP.

> **Note**: You must specify your FPGA compilation type (emulator/simulator/hardware) twice: through compiler options for the ahead-of-time compilation and through the runtime device selector.

### Source Code

> There are 3 parts to this tutorial located in the 3 sub-folders. 

Reviewer 2: You should motivate these 3 parts, explaining that this is a help to show the users how to start from a C++ code and make it evolve to a SYCL FPGA code

#### Part 1 C++

> A vector addition program in vanilla C++. This program can only be be compiled with the FPGA emulator compilation type. 

Reviewer 2: Humm, if this is vanilla C++, why the FPGA emulator? 
Isn't it just a CPU compile?

>
>For more information on environment variables, see **Use the setvars Script** for [Linux or macOS](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-programming-guide/top/oneapi-development-environment-setup/use-the-setvars-script-with-linux-or-macos.html), or [Windows](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-programming-guide/top/oneapi-development-environment-setup/use-the-setvars-script-with-windows.html).

> ### Running Samples in Intel&reg; DevCloud

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Running Samples in Intel® DevCloud
```
please use the unicode character instead.

### On a Linux* System

> For best results, use Linux. This design uses CMake to build the project. For different parts of this tutorial, navigate to the appropriate sub-folder, generate build artifacts for GNU/make targeting the default FPGA device like this:

Reviewer 3: what about linux gives better results? The original demo-duncan that this code is based off had this line in the readme because it used Makefiles (which don't work by default on Windows), but this design now uses CMake so it will work equally well on Windows and Linux (unless there is a different tradeoff).

> For best results, use Linux. This design uses CMake to build the project. For different parts of this tutorial, navigate to the appropriate sub-folder, generate build artifacts for GNU/make targeting the default FPGA device like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For best results, use Linux. This design uses CMake to build the project. For different parts of this tutorial, navigate to the appropriate sub-folder, generate build artifacts for GNU/make targeting the default FPGA device specified in `src/CMakeLists.txt` like this:
```

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
```

> To target an explicit FPGA device like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Override the `FPGA_DEVICE` variable to target a different FPGA device like this:
```

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA_device_family/part_number/bsp:variant> ..
```

> This project can build 8 targets for Linux.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This project can build 4 targets for Linux.
```

> | Target                     | Expected Time  | Output                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

Reviewer 3: this table seems redundant to an earlier table. can we condense this very very very long readme by removing one of them?

| `make fpga_sim`      | Minutes        | RTL + x86-64 binary                                           | Compiles the FPGA device code to RTL and generates a simulation testbench. Use the Questa*-Intel® FPGA Edition simulator to verify your design.                                                                                                                                                         |

The `fpga_emu`, `fpga_sim`, and `fpga` targets also
produce binaries that you can run. The executables will be called
`TARGET_NAME.fpga_emu`, `TARGET_NAME.fpga_sim`, and `TARGET_NAME.fpga`, where `TARGET_NAME` is the value you specify in
`src/CMakeLists.txt`.

### On a Windows* System

This design uses CMake to build the project. For different parts of this tutorial, navigate to the appropriate sub-folder, generate build artifacts for nmake targeting the default FPGA device like this:

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
```

> To target an explicit FPGA device like this:

Reviewer 3: same as above

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA_device_family/part_number/bsp:variant> -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
```

> This project can build 8 targets for Windows.

Reviewer 3: same as above

[Using Visual Studio Code with Intel® oneAPI Toolkits User Guide](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/using-vs-code-with-intel-oneapi/top.html).

### Run CMake on a Linux* System

This design uses CMake to build the project. For different parts of this tutorial, navigate to the appropriate sub-folder, generate build artifacts for GNU/make targeting the default FPGA device specified in `src/CMakeLists.txt` like this:

```bash

> $> mkdir build

Reviewer 2: Please remove all the $> and > as they are not consistent with the rest of the samples.

Please add a line saying `cd partX-XXX` before the `mkdir build`

Reviewer 2: You can factor out the mkdir build and cd build for all these commands.

```

Override the `FPGA_DEVICE` variable to generate a re-usable IP component like this:

```bash
$> mkdir build
$> cd build
$> cmake -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA_device_family/part_number> ..
```

### Run CMake on a Windows* System

This design uses CMake to build the project. For different parts of this tutorial, navigate to the appropriate sub-folder, generate build artifacts for nmake targeting the default FPGA device specified in `src/CMakeLists.txt` like this:

```bash
> mkdir build
> cd build
> cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
```

Override the `FPGA_DEVICE` variable to target a different FPGA card like this:

```bash
> mkdir build
> cd build
> cmake -DFPGA_DEVICE=<bsp:variant> -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
```

Override the `FPGA_DEVICE` variable to generate a re-usable IP component like this:

```bash
> mkdir build
> cd build
> cmake -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA_device_family/part_number> -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
```

> **Note**: The Intel® PAC with Intel Arria® 10 GX FPGA and Intel® FPGA PAC D5005 (with Intel Stratix® 10 SX) do not support Windows*. Compiling to FPGA hardware on Windows* requires a third-party or custom Board Support Package (BSP) with Windows* support.

> > **Note**: If you encounter any issues with long paths when compiling under Windows*, you may have to create your ‘build’ directory in a shorter path, for example c:\samples\build.  You can then run cmake from that directory, and provide cmake with the full path to your sample directory.

Reviewer 2: Why removing this paragraph?

> The `fpga_emu` and `fpga_sim` targets produce binaries that you can run. The executables will be called `TARGET_NAME.fpga_emu`, `TARGET_NAME.fpga_sim`, and `TARGET_NAME.fpga`, where `TARGET_NAME` is the value you specify in `src/CMakeLists.txt`. The `fpga` target will produce an executable binary if you create a full-system acceleration kernel.

Reviewer 2: It's not the value that the user specified, it's the value we specified.
So you can actually list them

Author: right, change all TARGET_NAME to vector_add

> If you encounter any issues with long paths when compiling under Windows*, you may have to create your ‘build’ directory in a shorter path, for example `c:\samples\build`.  You can then run cmake from that directory, and provide cmake with the full path to your sample directory.

Reviewer 2: Oh it is here, cool

> Windows:

Reviewer 2: I think that this is a bit too much and can be removed?

[Using Visual Studio Code with Intel® oneAPI Toolkits User Guide](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/using-vs-code-with-intel-oneapi/top.html).

> ### Run CMake on a Linux* System

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Run CMake to generate the Makefiles

#### On a Linux* System
```

This design uses CMake to build the project. For different parts of this tutorial, navigate to the appropriate sub-folder, and create a build directory for build artifacts.
```bash
cd <partX-XXX> 
mkdir build
cd build
```
`<partX-XXX>` can be:

> - part1-C++

Author: they were renamed to be shorter names to avoid Windows path length limit error in regtests :(

> - part1-C++

Reviewer 2: Can you give me a path to your regtest? A recent change was merged to avoid these longpath from the regtests themselves.

> - part1-C++

Author: I encounter the error when running locally on IOWIN a couple of weeks ago. let me change the name back and run again

> - part1-C++

Author: You are right, It passed without a problem now.
Here is the spec link to the new run:
https://spetc.intel.com/testanalysis?trview=0&testRunIds=7500417&tapgsize=20

- part2-dcpcpp_functor_usm
- part3-dcpcpp_lambda_buffers

Generate build artifacts for GNU/make targeting the default FPGA device specified in `src/CMakeLists.txt` like this:

```bash
cmake ..
```

Or, you can override the `FPGA_DEVICE` variable to target a different FPGA card like this:

```bash
cmake -DFPGA_DEVICE=<bsp:variant> ..
```

Or, you can override the `FPGA_DEVICE` variable to generate a re-usable IP component like this:

```bash
cmake -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA_device_family/part_number> ..
```

> ### Run CMake on a Windows* System

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### On a Windows* System
```

> This design uses CMake to build the project. For different parts of this tutorial, navigate to the appropriate sub-folder, and create a build directory for build artifacts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For different parts of this tutorial, navigate to the appropriate sub-folder.
```

```cmd
cd <partX-XXX>

> mkdir build
> cd build

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

```
`<partX-XXX>` can be:
- part1-C++
- part2-dcpcpp_functor_usm
- part3-dcpcpp_lambda_buffers

> Generate build artifacts for nmake targeting the default FPGA device specified in `src/CMakeLists.txt` like this:
> 
> ```cmd
> cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
> ```
> 
> Or, you can override the `FPGA_DEVICE` variable to target a different FPGA card like this:
> 
> ```cmd
> cmake -DFPGA_DEVICE=<bsp:variant> -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
> ```
> 
> Or, you can override the `FPGA_DEVICE` variable to generate a re-usable IP component like this:
> 
> ```cmd
> cmake -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA_device_family/part_number> -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
Generate the `Makefile` by running `cmake`.
  ```
  mkdir build
  cd build
  ```
  To compile for the default target (the Agilex™ device family), run `cmake` using the command:
  ```
  cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
  ```
  > **Note**: You can change the default target by using the command:
  >  ```
  >  cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA device family or FPGA part number>
  >  ``` 
  >
  > Alternatively, you can target an explicit FPGA board variant and BSP by using the following command: 
  >  ```
  >  cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<board-support-package>:<board-variant>
  >  ``` 
  >
  > You will only be able to run an executable on the FPGA if you specified a BSP.
````

> > **Note**: The Intel® PAC with Intel Arria® 10 GX FPGA and Intel® FPGA PAC D5005 (with Intel Stratix® 10 SX) do not support Windows*. Compiling to FPGA hardware on Windows* requires a third-party or custom Board Support Package (BSP) with Windows* support.

Reviewer 2: Remove this Note

### Build using `make`/`nmake`
After using CMake to generate build artifacts, you can then build with specific targets. This project can build 4 targets.

| Compilation Type    | Command (Linux)    | Command (Windows)
|:---                 |:---                |:---
| FPGA Emulator       | `make fpga_emu`    | `nmake fpga_emu`
| Optimization Report | `make report`      | `nmake report`
| FPGA Simulator      | `make fpga_sim`    | `nmake fpga_sim`
| FPGA Hardware       | `make fpga`        | `nmake fpga`

> The `fpga_emu` and `fpga_sim` targets produce binaries that you can run. The executables will be called `vector_add.fpga_emu`, `vector_add.fpga_sim`, and `vector_add.fpga`. The `fpga` target will produce an executable binary if you create a full-system acceleration kernel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `fpga_emu`, `fpga_sim` and `fpga` targets produce binaries that you can run. The executables will be called `vector_add.fpga_emu`, `vector_add.fpga_sim`, and `vector_add.fpga`. 
The `fpga` target will only produce an executable binary if you create a full-system acceleration kernel.
```

> For part 1 of this tutorial, only use the `fpga_emu` target to compile to CPU.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For part 1 of this tutorial, only the `fpga_emu` target is available as this regular C++ code is only capable of targeting a CPU.
```

> ### Troubleshooting

Reviewer 2: Remove this section

[Using Visual Studio Code with Intel® oneAPI Toolkits User Guide](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/using-vs-code-with-intel-oneapi/top.html).

### Run CMake on a Linux* System

This design uses CMake to build the project. For different parts of this tutorial, navigate to the appropriate sub-folder, and create a build directory for build artifacts.
```bash
cd <partX-XXX>
mkdir build
cd build

> ```

Reviewer: After the code block, can you add the list of parts or would that be redundant?
For example:

Where _&lt;partX-XX&gt;_ is one of the following:

- part1-C++
- part2-dcpcpp_functor_usm
- part3-dcpcpp_lambda_buffers

     ./fpga_compile.fpga_emu     (Linux)
     fpga_compile.fpga_emu.exe   (Windows)
     ```
2. Run the sample on the FPGA simulator device:
      ```
      ./fpga_template.fpga_sim     (Linux)
      fpga_template.fpga_sim.exe   (Windows)
      ```
3. Run the sample on the FPGA device:
     ```
     ./fpga_compile.fpga         (Linux)
     fpga_compile.fpga.exe       (Windows)
     ```

### Example of Output
```

> PASSED

Reviewer 3: that seems anticlamctic; I would have expected a bit more verbosity :)

> ### In Third-Party Integrated Development Environments (IDEs)

Reviewer 2: Remove this section

You can compile and run this tutorial in the Eclipse* IDE (in Linux*) and the Visual Studio* IDE (in Windows*). For instructions, refer to the following link: [FPGA Workflows on Third-Party IDEs for Intel® oneAPI Toolkits](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/intel-oneapi-dpcpp-fpga-workflow-on-ide.html).

## Examining the Reports

> Locate `report.html` in the `vector_add.report.prj/reports/` directory. Open the report in any of Chrome*, Firefox*, Edge*, or Internet Explorer*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In part2-dcpcpp_functor_usm and part3-dcpcpp_lambda_buffers, after running the `report` target, locate `report.html` in the `vector_add.report.prj/reports/` directory. Open the report in any of Chrome*, Firefox*, Edge*, or Internet Explorer*.
```

Browse the reports that were generated for the `VectorAdd` kernel's FPGA early image. You may also wish to examine the reports generated by the simulation compile and full FPGA hardware compile and compare their contents.

## Running the Sample

 1. Run the sample on the FPGA emulator (the kernel executes on the CPU):
     ```
     ./vector_add.fpga_emu     (Linux)
     vector_add.fpga_emu.exe   (Windows)
     ```
2. Run the sample on the FPGA simulator device (the kernel executes in a simulator):

>       ```
>       ./vector_add.fpga_sim    (Linux)
>       vector_add.fpga_sim.exe  (Windows)
>       ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * On Linux
        ```
        CL_CONTEXT_MPSIM_DEVICE_INTELFPGA=1 ./vector_add.fpga_sim
        ```
    * On Windows
        ```
        set CL_CONTEXT_MPSIM_DEVICE_INTELFPGA=1
        vector_add.fpga_sim.exe
        set CL_CONTEXT_MPSIM_DEVICE_INTELFPGA=
        ```
```

> 3. Run the sample on the FPGA device (only for full-system acceleration kernel):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Run the sample on the FPGA device (only if you ran `cmake` with `-DFPGA_DEVICE=<board-support-package>:<board-variant>`):
```
